IEEE TRANSACTIONS ON COMMUNICATIONS, VOL. 71, NO. 12, DECEMBER 2023 7149
An Advanced Integrated Visible Light
Communication and Localization System
Helin Yang
 ,Senior Member, IEEE , Sheng Zhang, Arokiaswami Alphones
 ,Senior Member, IEEE ,
Chen Chen
 ,Member, IEEE , Kwok-Yan Lam
 ,Senior Member, IEEE , Zehui Xiong
 ,Senior Member, IEEE ,
Liang Xiao
 ,Senior Member, IEEE , and Yi Zhang
 ,Member, IEEE
Abstract — Visible light communication (VLC) is an emerg-
ing wireless technology to support high transmission rate for
indoor devices by using existing lighting infrastructure, and
VLC-based indoor localization is capable of providing high-
accuracy localization. However, current VLC-based localization
systems suffer from several key challenges such as sensitivity to
random tilting of the receiver, which limits its full potential in
real-world applications. In this paper, we design an integrated
visible light communication and localization (VLCL) system
to simultaneously support accurate real-time localization and
communication services for indoor devices. To achieve this,
an advanced differential phase difference of arrival (A-DPDOA)
localization design is developed to simplify hardware and improve
tracking robustness. In addition, a joint adaptive modulation,
subcarrier and power allocation scheme is also proposed, which
aims to improve the communication data rate and localization
accuracy. Extensive experiments are performed to demonstrate
that the proposed integrated VLCL system achieves higher
Manuscript received 25 August 2022; revised 7 April 2023 and 26 June
2023; accepted 23 August 2023. Date of publication 29 August 2023; date of
current version 19 December 2023. This work was supported in part by the
National Natural Science Foundation of China under Grants No. 62371408,
62301467, 61971366, U21A20444, and 62271091, the Fundamental Research
Funds for the Central Universities under Grant No. 20720220080. This
research is also supported by the National Research Foundation, Singapore,
and Infocomm Media Development Authority under its Future Communica-
tions Research and Development Programme. The research is also supported
by the SUTD SRG-ISTD-2021-165, the SUTD-ZJU IDEA Grant (SUTD-ZJU
(VP) 202102), and the Ministry of Education, Singapore, under its SUTD
Kickstarter Initiative (SKI 20210204). An earlier version of this paper was
presented in part at the IEEE International Conference on Communications
(ICC), Dublin, Ireland, June 2020 [DOI: 10.1109/ICC40277.2020.9149119].
The associate editor coordinating the review of this article and approving it
for publication was A. M. Vegni. (Corresponding author: Helin Yang.)
Helin Yang, Liang Xiao, and Yi Zhang are with the School of Infor-
matics and the Key Laboratory of Multimedia Trusted Perception and
Efficient Computing, Xiamen University, Xiamen 361005, China (e-mail:
helinyang066@xmu.edu.cn; lxiao@xmu.edu.cn; yizhang@xmu.edu.cn).
Sheng Zhang is with the Institute for Infocomm Research, Agency
for Science, Technology and Research, Singapore 138632 (e-mail:
szhang034@e.ntu.edu.sg).
Arokiaswami Alphones is with the School of Electrical and Electronic
Engineering, Nanyang Technological University, Singapore 639798 (e-mail:
ealphones@ntu.edu.sg).
Chen Chen is with the School of Microelectronics and Communica-
tion Engineering, Chongqing University, Chongqing 400000, China (e-mail:
c.chen@cqu.edu.cn).
Kwok-Yan Lam is with the School of Computer Science and Engi-
neering and the Strategic Centre for Research in Privacy-Preserving Tech-
nologies, Nanyang Technological University, Singapore 639798 (e-mail:
kwokyan.lam@ntu.edu.sg).
Zehui Xiong is with the Pillar of Information Systems Technology and
Design, Singapore University of Technology and Design, Singapore 487372
(e-mail: zehui_xiong@sutd.edu.sg).
Color versions of one or more figures in this article are available at
https://doi.org/10.1109/TCOMM.2023.3309823.
Digital Object Identifier 10.1109/TCOMM.2023.3309823localization accuracy and transmission data rate, compared to
existing systems and schemes. Experiments also illustrate that the
localization algorithm is more robust against the random tilting
of the receiver under device movement in two-dimensional and
three-dimensional scenarios.
Index Terms— Visible light communication, visible light local-
ization, adaptive transmission, robust scheme, indoor devices.
I. I NTRODUCTION
INDOOR
localization is important for object or device
positioning, tracking, and navigation in factories, hospitals,
airports, offices, train stations, and warehouses [1],[2],[3].
Radio-frequency (RF)-based localization is a typical field
of application for indoor localization, tracking and navi-
gation, which has been widely investigated to identify or
track the location of mobile objects [2]. However, in indoor
RF-based localization systems, the localization accuracy is
significantly impaired by indoor multipath reflections and
shadowing effects [3],[4].
In recent years, researchers have reported that white light
emitting diodes (LEDs) can be installed to set up visible
light communications (VLC) systems to support wireless
communications and to estimate the locations of mobile
devices in indoor environments, such as in office, supermarket,
hospital, airport, and factory [2], [3], [4], [5], [6], [7], [8].
Thus, relying on homogeneously deployed lighting infras-
tructure, VLC-based LEDs has been recently regarded as a
potential technique for fifth-generation (5G) communication
networks and beyond, as it can not only support illumina-
tions and high-speed communications rate, but also provide
high-accuracy localization in indoor environments.
On the one hand, VLC based LEDs is an potential technol-
ogy for indoor communications with the benefit of high data
rate, no RF interference and license-free. The literature [9],
[10] provided a fundamental investigation on VLC systems,
where the system principle was discussed in detail. After
that, the development of VLC has achieved much interests
from both academia and industry. The references [11], [12],
and [13] presented VLC systems for indoor communication
applications, and actual experiments were presented to show
the effectiveness of their designed VLC systems in indoor
environments. The work in [14] used high-quality LEDs to
obtain a data rate of 500 Mbit/s in VLC systems.
In[15], the adaptive modulation designs combining with
orthogonal frequency division multiplexing (OFDM) were
0090-6778 © 2023 IEEE. Personal use is permitted, but republication/redistribution requires IEEE permission.
See https://www.ieee.org/publications/rights/index.html for more information.
Authorized licensed use limited to: Rajiv Gandhi Institute of Petroleum Technology. Downloaded on July 09,2026 at 05:40:38 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 7150 IEEE TRANSACTIONS ON COMMUNICATIONS, VOL. 71, NO. 12, DECEMBER 2023
presented in VLC systems to maximize the data rate, where
signal-to-noise-ratio (SNR) is acted as a reference to choose
modulation levels at different subcarriers. Different optical
versions of OFDM were developed for optical communications
and the VLC technology, such as optical OFDM [6], asymmet-
rically clipped optical OFDM [16], DC biased optical OFDM
[17], and asymmetrically clipped DC biased optical OFDM
[18]. Dissanayake et al. in [17] summarized the advantages
of these OFDM techniques and compared their communica-
tion performances. Furthermore, the work in [19] and [20]
experimentally studied weighted pre-equalization schemes to
enhance the communication data rate by compensating fre-
quency attenuation of VLC.
On the other hand, localization and positioning using VLC
technology have been proposed to improve the localization
accuracy [4],[21], [22], [23], [24], [25], [26], [27], [28], [29],
[30], [31], [32] due to the less indoor multipath reflections
and shadowing effects compared to RF-based localization.
The studies in [4]and[21] provided a comprehensive review
of different localization techniques for VLC-based localiza-
tion, such as received signal strength (RSS), angle of arrival
(AoA), time-of-arrival (TOA) and time-difference-of-arrival
(TDOA). A real-time indoor positioning systems based on
VLC were experimentally demonstrated in [22], where differ-
ent cell layouts were designed to get the optimum frequency
assignment for LED-based coverage. Even though VLC-based
localization systems embrace the high-accuracy localization
benefit, several fundamental problems in terms of precision,
robustness, real-time operation, and reliability remain. For
example, VLC-based RSS localization adopts received power
to perform location estimation, which is sensitive to back-
ground noise and random tilting of photo-detector (PD) plane
in a real-world setting [23], [24], [25]. The AoA localization
algorithm can achieve high accuracy performance [26], [27],
[28] and Li et al. in [26] also demonstrated the localization
performance in 3D scenario. The localization algorithms, i.e.,
TDOA [29] and phase difference of arrival (PDOA) [30],
are capable of supporting high-accuracy localization, but they
require both expensive synchronized real local oscillators
(LOs) and high-speed analog-to-digital converters (ADCs),
where these two requirements hinder their practical imple-
mentation. Our previously work in [31] presented a hybrid
RSS/PDOA scheme to maintain the high localization accuracy
under receiver tilting, but it requires a high computational
complexity. Recently, Shao et al. [23] proposed an excellent
localization scheme achieve nearly 4 cm localization accuracy
performance, where a number of PDs (i.e., landmarks) are
mounted on any single unmodified light source to sense the
retroreflected optical signal (i.e., location signature). More-
over, in addition to providing high-accuracy localization in
VLC-based systems, communication services also need to be
supported simultaneously in the same system [3], where some
indoor scenarios may require high-speed transmission data,
e.g., augmented reality (AR) or virtual reality (VR) services
need a high-speed transmission data rate up to several hundred
megabits per second (Mbps) [32].
Recently, many works presented the integration of VLC and
VLL in the same system [3], [33], [34], [35], [36], calledintegrated VLCL system, in order to support both communica-
tion and positioning applications instead of providing VLC [9],
[10], [11], [12], [13], [14], [15], [16], [17], [18], [19], [20],
[21], [22] or VLL [23], [24], [25], [26], [27], [28], [29], [30],
[31] independently. For example, in a factory, some indoor
vehicles need the localization service to transport goods from
one place to another place, while some machines require to
download images or videos to perform manufacture, and thus
the system needs to provide both localization and communi-
cation for these devices at the same time in the same system.
In detail, the references in [33] and[34] combined orthogonal
frequency division multiple access (OFDMA) and RSS in
integrated VLCL systems, but the performance is degraded due
to severe out-of-band interference generated from OFDM sig-
nals. Additionally, an integrated VLCL system applying filter
bank multicarrier-based subcarrier multiplexing (FBMC-SCM)
was proposed to avoid effect of the out-of-band interference
(OOBI) and then improve the system performance [34], [35],
but it requires extra computational complexity for signal pro-
cessing at transmitters. In addition, Yang et al. investigated the
resource allocation for integrated VLCL systems with consid-
ering quality-of-service (QoS) requirements [36]. Furthermore,
considering the negative effect of receiver tilting on the system
performance in practical VLL systems, the authors in [25],
[33], [36], and [37] provided the analysis of receiver tilting on
the localization performance, where the random and unknown
tilt angle of receiver can cause significant localization errors
when mobile devices move in indoor environments. The works
in[25], [33], [36], and [37] used the RSS algorithm to perform
localization, where RSS adopts received power to implement
location estimation which is greatly sensitive to random tilting
of PD plane in a real-world setting. Hence, implementing both
communication and real-time indoor localization with high
robustness, precision, and reliability is still challenging.
Moreover, there are several new challenges of combining
VLL and VLC: 1) Communication bands on the visible light
spectrum leak OOBI to adjacent bands, which significantly
reduces the communication performance and localization
accuracy; 2) There exists a power allocation tradeoff between
VLC and VLL, and thus how to effectively allocate fixed or
limited transmission power for them to guarantee both the
communication and localization requirements is a challenge;
3) light-of-sight (LoS) blocking is an important issue in
the integrated system, and how to design a robust handover
mechanism to ensure both the communication and localization
performance under LoS blockages is also a challenge.
To overcome the challenges mentioned above, this paper
experimentally designs an integrated VLCL system (com-
bine OFDMA and a presented advanced differential PDOA
(A-DPDOA)) to support both the communication and real-time
localization services. A joint adaptive modulation, subcarrier
allocation and power allocation design is also proposed to
optimize the transmission data rate and localization accu-
racy of devices. Moreover, different from the work in [1],
as RSS-based localization is much sensitive to random tilting
of PD plane, an A-DPDOA-based localization algorithm is
presented to provide high-accuracy localization. The main
contributions of the paper are listed as follows:
Authorized licensed use limited to: Rajiv Gandhi Institute of Petroleum Technology. Downloaded on July 09,2026 at 05:40:38 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. YANG et al.: ADV ANCED INTEGRATED VISIBLE LIGHT COMMUNICATION AND LOCALIZATION SYSTEM 7151
•We experimentally design an integrated VLCL system
to simultaneously support both the communication and
localization services. The localization signal in integrated
VLCL system can be used for RSS and A-DPDOA
localization, and avoid the the interference (OOBI) from
adjacent communication subcarriers.
•An A-DPDOA localization design is developed to sim-
plify hardware without using local oscillators, which
reduces the negative effect of hardware on localization
accuracy, and improves tracking robustness under receiver
tilting. The A-DPDOA localization algorithm can achieve
the robust localization accuracy against receiver tilting.
•A joint adaptive modulation, subcarrier allocation and
power allocation design is presented to optimize the
transmission data rate and localization accuracy perfor-
mance. In this context, the power allocation tradeoff
between VLC and VLL is designed to improve both the
communication and localization performances.
•We conduct actual experiments to evaluate the local-
ization accuracy and system data rate performance in
practical settings. In detail, centimeter (cm)-level local-
ization/tracking accuracy under device mobility (i.e., the
mean 2D tracking error of 4.3 cm and the mean tracking
error of 9.3 cm in 3D tracking scenario), as well as
data rate of more than one hundred Mbps per unit, are
achieved. In addition, compared with other RSS based
localization systems, the proposed integrated VLCL sys-
tem not only achieves higher tracking accuracy, but also
is more robust against random tilting of receiver.
Organization: The rest of this paper is organized as follows.
An advanced integrated VLCL system is shown in Section II.
Section III provides the principle of the presented adaptive
transmission design. Section IVshows the experimental results
and discussion. Section Vsummarizes the work.
II. I NTEGRATED VLCL S YSTEM MODEL
A. Integrated VLCL Framework
As shown in Fig. 1 (a), in addition to supporting indoor light
illumination, LED lamps (let ‘LED’ denote ‘LED lamp’ in this
paper) can be used to set up VLCL systems to support both
wireless communication and localization services for indoor
devices. At each device, a PD is equipped to receive the optical
signal before converting it into electrical signals.
The schema of the system architecture is provided in
Fig. 1 (b). At the transmitter side, communication signals and
synchronized localization sinewave signals are initially gener-
ated from a signal generator, i.e., arbitrary waveform generator.
The integrated communication and localization signals are first
amplified and then combined with direct current (DC) biases
by bias-tees to drive the corresponding LED lamps. At the
mobile device side, the receiver consists of an avalanche PD
(APD) with an integrated electrical amplifier, a VLC module,
and a VLL module. After receiving the optical signals from the
LED lamps, the APD converts the optical signal to electrical
signals, and then captures them by using an oscilloscope.
The Raspberry Pi is used to perform communication signal
demodulation, power measurement, and location estimation.Fig. 1 (c) shows the electronical spectra of integrated
communication and localization signals at the LED transmitter
sides, which is simulated. Both the communication signal and
localization sinewave signal are generated by using MATLAB
tool, and they are respectively allocated on the communication
subcarriers and localization subcarriers. Then, these two kinds
of signal are added together at the LED transmitter side.
For the localization module, as illustrated in Fig. 1 (c), the
sinusoidal signals with five different frequencies (blue color),
i.e., from f1tof5, are modulated on the four LED lamps.
LED lamp 1 carries two sinusoidal signals with frequencies
f1andf5, while LED lamp 2, LED lamp 3, and LED lamp
4 use frequencies f2,f3, and f4to transmit sinusoidal signals,
respectively. Note that these five frequencies are not used to
transmit communication signals in one unit of the VLCL sys-
tem. From Fig. 1(c), it can be seen that there are five frequency
holes in the identified subcarriers that have negligible OOBI
leakage from adjacent communication subcarriers (red color).
In the context, the localization sinusoidal signals (blue color)
are put into these frequency holes, to avoid the interference
leakage on localization frequency holes from the communi-
cation signals. In addition, there exists a power allocation
tradeoff between VLC and VLL, and we will design this power
allocation scheme to maintain both the communication and
localization performances (in Section III).
After receiving the mixed integrated communication and
localization signals from four LED lamps, band-pass fil-
ters (BPFs) and band-stop filter (BSF) are applied to filter
both the localization signal and communication signal out
from the received mixed signal, respectively. For localization,
we propose an advanced differential phase difference of arrival
(A-DPDOA) to estimate the location of devices, as it can
simplify hardware without using LOs and it is robust against
background noise and random tilting of PD plane in real-world
settings, where the localization principle of A-DPDOA will be
provided in Section II-B.
In the integrated VLCL system, Kdevices (e.g., robot,
machine and phone) randomly distribute on the floor. The
system has a central controller, which connects all LEDs
to transmit signal to devices. Once the central controller
collects the feedback information (e,g., channel information
and devices’ services), it can schedule the communication and
localization tasks. The bandwidth is equally divided into N
subcarriers. As each LED lamp has one unique localization
subcarrier to transmit localization sinusoidal signal, expect
one of them having two unique localization subcarriers in our
proposed localization algorithm, totally L+ 1subcarriers out
of the Nsubcarriers are applied for localization while ther
N−L−1subcarriers are used for communication. As the
system has Kdevices, there have Kcommunication subcarrier
groups (SGs).
The power allocation tradeoff between VLC and VLP, and
the interference (OOBI) will affect each other. When the
transmission power of LED is fixed, if the VLCL system
allocates more power to VLC spectrum subcarriers, the system
can achieve the higher communication data rate, but the
positioning subcarriers will be allocated with less power and
the localization accuracy will decrease in this case. In contrast,
Authorized licensed use limited to: Rajiv Gandhi Institute of Petroleum Technology. Downloaded on July 09,2026 at 05:40:38 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 7152 IEEE TRANSACTIONS ON COMMUNICATIONS, VOL. 71, NO. 12, DECEMBER 2023
Fig. 1. The system model of integrated VLCL system.
if the system allocates more power on positioning subcarriers,
the locations accuracy can be improved due to the high
received signal strength, but the communication data rate will
decline due to the less received signal power. Thus, there exists
some tradeoff between them in term of power allocation.
B. Communication Model
In integrated VLCL system, the received SNR at device k
on communication subcarrier nis expressed as
γco
k,n=µ2(XL
i=1p
Pn,iHi,n,k)2
δ2, (1)
where µdenotes the PD’s responsivity. Pn,irepresents the
allocated electrical power on subcarrier nat LED i.Hi,n,k
is the line-of-sight (LoS) optical channel gain from LED ito
device kon subcarrier n.δ2denotes the additive background
noise power at the devices [6],[9].
For device k, if it is assigned on the n-th subcarrier,
the transmission signal can be modulated by Mn-quadrature
amplitude modulation (QAM) with the modulation order Mn,
the bit error rate (BER) is defined by adopting [6],[9],
BER k,n=√Mn−1√Mnlog2(√Mn)erfc s
3γco
k,n
2(M n−1)!
.(2)
The transmission data rate (bits/s) of the k-th device on its
assigned subcarrier can be given by [6], [9], [10], [11], [12],
and[13]
Rk=BsubXN/2−1
n=1(ρk,nlog2Mn), (3)
where ρk,ndenotes a binary parameter, ρk,n∈{0,1}, and
ρk,n= 1 shows that the communication subcarrier nis
allocated to device k; otherwise, ρk,n= 0. Bsubdenotes
subcarrier bandwidth Bsub=B/N , where Bdenotes the
transmission bandwidth.
C. Proposed A-DPDOA Localization
Letdi,kdenotes the transmission distance between the i-th
LED lamp and the k-th device, we have di,k=ti,kcwith
cbeing the speed of light and ti,kbeing the corresponding
propagation time. The propagation time ti,kcan be given by:ti,k= ∆φ i,k/2πf i, where ∆φi,kis the phase shift of the
transmitted sinusoid signal at the frequency of fifor device k.
With reference to Fig. 1 (c), let STx
i(t)denote the input
sinusoidal signal modulated on the i-th LED lamp, which is
expressed as
STx
i(t) =p
Pisin(2πf it+φ0), (4)
where φ0is the initial phase of the signal. After propagating
through an indoor optical wireless channel, being detected and
passing through a BPF, the received signal SRx
i(t)at the k-th
device is given by
SRx
i,k(t) =p
PiHi,ksin(2πf it+ ∆φ i,k+φ0) +nk(t), (5)
where nk(t)is the background noise at device k, and Hi,kis
the LOS optical wireless channel gain between device kand
thei-th LED lamp. To measure ∆φi,k, an I/Q (In phase and
Quadrature) demodulator is required. However, this method
requires a LO to generate a reference signal at the frequency
fiwith a phase locked loop (PLL) circuit to decode the
phase shift ∆φi,k. This LO needs to precisely synchronize
the transmitted sinusoidal signal, which significantly increases
the system complexity and affects the measurement accuracy,
since there are multiple VLL lamps. In this work, we propose
a non-LO based differential phase-shift measurement to obtain
∆φi,k, which can be used in the triangulation algorithm for
the localization estimation. Equation (5) can be re-written as
SRx
i,k(t) =p
PiHi,ksin(ω it+ωiti,k+φ0) +nk(t). (6)
where ωis the angular frequency: ω= 2πf . To extract the
implicit parameter di,kfrom equation (6), we use a differential
phase shift measurement approach. Multiplying SRx
1(t)by
SRx
2(t), we have
SRx
1,k(t)SRx
2,k(t) =−1
2p
P1p
P2H1,kH2,k
×[cos (( ω1+ω2)t+ω1t1,k+ω2t2,k
+2∆φ 0)−cos (( ω2−ω1)t+ω2t2,k
−ω1t2,k)] +n12,k(t), (7)
where n12,k(t)is the additive noise term. After the received
signal passing through a BPF with center frequency of
Authorized licensed use limited to: Rajiv Gandhi Institute of Petroleum Technology. Downloaded on July 09,2026 at 05:40:38 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. YANG et al.: ADV ANCED INTEGRATED VISIBLE LIGHT COMMUNICATION AND LOCALIZATION SYSTEM 7153
(ω2−ω1)and noise being ignored, the phase difference related
term is achieved by
D1,k(t) =1
2p
P1p
P2H1,kH2,kcos (( ω2−ω1)t+ω2t2,k
−ω1t1,k), (8)
Similarly, we have
Di,k(t) =1
2p
Pip
Pi+1Hi,kHi+1,k
×cos (( ωi+1−ωi)t+ωi+1ti+1,k−ωiti,k),
×i= 2,3,4. (9)
Multiplying equations (8) by(9), when we take D1,k(t)×
D2,k(t)as an example, the differential expression is then
obtained, i.e.,
D1,k(t)×D2,k(t) =1
8p
P1P2p
P3H1,kH2
2,kH3,k
×[cos((ω 3−ω1)t−ω1t1,k+ω3t3,k)
+cos(ω 1t1,k+ω3t3,k−2ω2t2,k)]
(10)
To achieve the differential of phase differences (DPDs), the
phase of D1,k(t)×D2,k(t)should be extracted. We can respec-
tively extract the In-Phase and Quadrature-phase components
by adopting
I1,k=LPF (D1,k(t)×D2,k(t))
=1
8p
P1P2p
P3H1,kH2
2,kH3,kcos
×(ω1t1,k+ω3t3,k−2ω2t2,k), (11)
Q1,k=LPF (D1,k(t)×Hilb (D2,k(t)))
=1
8p
P1P2p
P3H2
2,kH3,ksin
×(ω1t1,k+ω3t3,k−2ω2t2,k), (12)
where LPF (·)andHilb(·) are LPF and the Hilbert transfor-
mation, respectively. Taking ratio as Q1,k/I1,k, the amplitude
terms are canceled, leading to a tan(·) based phase term.
Extracting the dual differential of phases with, we have
ω1t1,k+ω3t3,k−2ω2t2,k= tan−1(Q1,k/I1,k). (13)
Similarly, we also have
ω2t2,k+ω4t4,k−2ω3t3,k= tan−1(Q2,k/I2,k), (14)
ω3t3,k+ω5t1,k−2ω4t4,k= tan−1(Q3,k/I3,k). (15)
Note that we set that the five localization frequencies are the
arithmetic progression, then the above equation groups from
equation (13) to (15) can be solved by the following matrix

d1,k−d2,k
d2,k−d3,k
d3,k−d4,k
=c
tan−1(Q1,k/I1,k)
tan−1(Q2,k/I2,k)
tan−1(Q3,k/I3,k)

×
ω1−ω3 0
0ω2−ω4
ω5ω5ω5+ω3
−1
, (16)
where ti,kis replaced by di,kandcusing ti,k=di,k/c,
andtan−1(Qi,k/Ii,k)can be calculated after measuring theparameters in the experiment. Considering di,k−di+1,kas
a variable, we get a rank equations which can effectively
address these distance differences variables problem. To com-
pute the k-th device’s location (xk, yk, zk), the relationship
between the receiver location and the transmission distance
isdi,k=q
((xi−xk)2+ (y k−y)2+ (z k−z)2), where
(xi, yi, zi)denotes the poistion of the LED lamp i. From
Eq.(11), (12), and (16), we can observe that the distance
deference variable di,k−di+1,kis determined by both the
In-Phase Ii,kand the Quadrature-phase Qi,k, and these two
components Ii,kandQi,kare related to the transmission power
Pi. Thus,the selection of transmission power value affects the
distance deference variable estimation accuracy, and finally
affects the localization error.
Conventionally, the receiver can apply the Newton-Raphson
and Levenberg-Marquard schemes to numerically complete the
location estimation. However, these solutions require much
longer computational time than expected if the initial values
are inappropriately selected. Moreover, it should be noted that
there exist relatively location shifting errors in the localization
system due to the following two factors: 1) the VLCL hard-
ware may have bias errors of time delay measurements when
we implement the experiments; 2) the calibration process on
Initial Time Delay (ITD) at all LED lamps. To address these
issues, the shifting error mitigation technique is adopted to
simplify the trilateration solution and improve the location
accuracy.
III. A DAPTIVE TRANSMISSION DESIGN FOR
INTEGRATED VLCL S YSTEMS
The block diagram of the adaptive transmission scheme for
the integrated VLCL system is illustrated in Fig. 2, where
a joint adaptive modulation, subcarrier allocation as well
as power allocation is presented to improve the localization
accuracy and communication performance. The process to
realize the adaptive transmission are provided by the following
analysis.
At the transmitters, the system allocates communication
SGs to devices, and then the localization signals for VLL are
integrated with communication signal at all LEDs, where five
localization frequencies from f1tof5are set into the (K +1)-
th SG and all communication signals are allocated on KSGs.
The central controller receives the information (e.g., channel
state information, channel quality, and data rate requirements)
from devices, and it selects the adaptive M-QAM mapping
according to devices’ different minimum data requirements
and feedback information.
According to (1), the system chooses the modulation order
Mnbased on the SNR value γco
k,nof device k, which is
Mn= 2j, γth
j≤γco
k,n≤γth
j+1, j= 1, . . . , J−1, (17)
where γth
jdenotes the SNR target value of the corresponding
modulation level j, its current BER k,nshould be less than
the maximum tolerant threshold BER max. The above analysis
in(17) shows the modulation order selection process based on
the received SNR information from devices.
Authorized licensed use limited to: Rajiv Gandhi Institute of Petroleum Technology. Downloaded on July 09,2026 at 05:40:38 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 7154 IEEE TRANSACTIONS ON COMMUNICATIONS, VOL. 71, NO. 12, DECEMBER 2023
Fig. 2. Block diagram of the proposed adaptive transmission for integrated VLCL systems.
Considering the fact that the severe attenuation of LEDs
in high frequency domain in optical systems, the power
allocation based on pre-equalization method is adopted to
compensate the frequency attenuation at LED sides. We find
that transitional pre-equalization methods are not optimal,
because the system sacrifices a large amount of power to
balance of the attenuation in high frequency domains. The
authors in [15], [19], and [20] proposed a power allocation
based on pre-equalization scheme to optimize the sum data rate
of all subcarriers. However, power allocation schemes in [15],
[19], and [20] was still not the optimal scheme, because it
is only a fixed-order modulation as well as static subcarrier
allocation. Therefore, the joint adaptive transmission design is
presented to dynamically improve the transmission data rate
while ensuring the localization accuracy requirement.
The modulation order of the k-th SG is denoted by Mk.
The continuous subcarrier allocation indicator for device kis
denoted by ρk. In addition, the k-th SG signal in the frequency
domain when considering the joint adaptive modulation, sub-
carrier allocation, as well as power allocation is expressed as
S′
k(Mk,ρk) =p
Pk·H−1
k(ρk)·Sk(Mk,ρk), (18)
where S′
k(Mk,ρk)andSk(Mk,ρk)are the k-th SG sig-
nal vector before and after pre-equalization, respectively. Pk
andHkdenote the power allocation coefficient on the k-th
subcarrier group and the transfer function matrix of SG k,
respectively. Note that Hi,kis one subcarrier of the subcarrier
group Hk. It is worth noting that Hkis a diagonal matrix.
Hkcan be measured offline before the experiment.
At each device, for VLL, the received localization signal
on the five localization frequencies from four correspond-
ing LEDs can be measured in the integrated VLCL system
by using band stop filter (BSF). After obtaining the four
received localization power levels, the location of the device
is achieved by adopting the A-DPDOA-based localization
algorithm. For VLC, the communication signals are achieved
when the received signals are filtered by using BSF, and finally
communication signals are demodulated by adopting OFDM
demodulation technique.
Note that for the channel feedback issue, in general
communication systems, it also needs receiver to send its
channel information to the transmitter. When we consider theauto-rate function, the receiver needs only to feed back its
received SNR to the transmitter for the system data rate update.
When the SNR value is sent back, we can know whether the
data rate can meet the QoS requirement or not. If it fail to meet
the QoS requirement, we can use the water-fulling method to
increase power allocation value in the next iteration to enhance
the achievable data rate.
For the localization algorithm design, let Gdenote the
sample points of each received localization signal. The system
uses filter to flit the five signals in equation (5)and four
signals in equation (9), which respectively require about
the computational complexity of 5GlogG and4GlogG [35].
The computational complexity in Eq. (7) and (10) are
4Gand3G, respectively. The computational complexity of
Eq.(11) and(12) is about 6G. The computational complexity
in the location derivation in Eq. (16) is about L2.5ln(1/κ),
where κis the iteration tolerance and Lis the number of
LED lamps. According to the above analysis, the experimental
computational complexity of the localization algorithm is
O 
9G+ 9G logG+L2.5ln(1/κ)
.
The joint optimization algorithm can be summarized as
follows:
Step 01: Initialize the iteration i=0, set the sum data rate
Rsum(0) = 0, subcarrier allocation indicator ρk(0), weighted
pre-equalization coefficients Pk(0)and the modulation order
Mk(0)of each device. Set the maximum tolerance ς≥0;
Step 02: Each device ksends its detected channel infor-
mation, localization accuracy requirements and minimum data
rate requirements Rmin
k(QoS requirement) to the transmitter
side by WiFi or VLC uplink links;
Step 03: The transmitters update the weighted pre-
equalization coefficients PK+1(0)on positioning SG to guar-
antee localization accuracy first;
Step 04: According to the device’s minimum data rate
requirements, the transmitter iteratively calculates subcarrier
allocation indicator ρk(0), weighted pre-equalization coef-
ficients Pk(i+ 1) and modulation order Mk(i+ 1) for
devices, to satisfy their minimum data rate requirements first,
in other work, allocating communication resource to satisfy
Rk(i)≥Rmin
kfor each device;
Step 05: After ensuring the minimum data rate requirements
of devices, the system allocates the extra power and subcarriers
Authorized licensed use limited to: Rajiv Gandhi Institute of Petroleum Technology. Downloaded on July 09,2026 at 05:40:38 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. YANG et al.: ADV ANCED INTEGRATED VISIBLE LIGHT COMMUNICATION AND LOCALIZATION SYSTEM 7155
to the devices with best channel quality to maximize
Rsum(i+ 1) by updating ρk(i+ 1),Pk(i+ 1) andMk(i+ 1).
For example, the water-filling method is used to allocate
the number of available subcarriers to each device to meet
its minimum data rate constraint. After allocating a part of
subcarriers to all devices to guarantee their QoS requirements,
the extra subcarriers will be allocated to the devices who have
higher channel gains to maximize the system sum data rate.
Step 06: Seti=i+ 1, and then update the sum data rate
Rsum(i);
Step 07: Repeat Step 02 to Step 06 until |Rsum(i)−
Rsum(i−1)|≤ ς;
Step 08: Output the parameters ρk(i),Pk(i)and Mk(i).
Note that the above joint optimization algorithm uses the
water-filling method to allocate both power and subcarrier
to guarantee devices’ minimum data rate constraints and
maximize the system sum data rate, and the method will
converge to a sub-optimality.
IV. E XPERIMENTAL SETUP AND RESULTS
Fig. 1(b) illustrates the lighting system, which is used to
evaluate the localization accuracy and communication data rate
performances. We demonstrate the experiment with a coverage
area of 222.5 m3. We set the locations of four LEDs as
(-0.4, 0.4, 1.35), (0.4, 0.4, 1.35), (-0.4, 0.4, 1.35) and (-0.4,
-0.4, 1.35) in meters. The Inverse Fast Fourier Transform
(IFFT) size N= 256. The modulation bandwidth we use
is 20 MHz. The modulation order M={2,4,8,16,32,64}
andBER max= 3.8×10−3. The frequencies of the five
sinusoidal signals for localization range from 4.0 to 4.8 MHz
with each frequency gap being 0.2 MHz. Generally, the 2D
localization service of the proposed localization needs at least
three LED lamps, and the 3D localization service of the pro-
posed localization needs at least four LED lamps. Generally,
the 2D localization service of the proposed localization scheme
needs at least three LED lamps, and the 3D localization service
of the proposed localization scheme needs at least four LED
lamps. In the manuscript, as its an experimental setting up,
we use four LED lamps to demonstrate the performance.
From Fig. 1(b), we provides the experimental setup to
show the communication localization performance. The PD
equipped with each device is put at the top of the robot or
indoor vehicle. In this case, one of our researchers move it
during the experiment process. In order to avoid blocking
the visible light at the receiver, the research is on hands and
knees to perform the experiments. The movement trajectory is
planned before the experiment, which is shown in Fig.6 and
Fig. 7with blue color. When implementing the experiment,
the research carefully pushes the robot along the planned
trajectory, the location estimation can be obtained by the
Rasperry Pi and computer.
A. Online Localization Delay Evaluation
To show the computation latency of localization, we com-
pare the computation time of the the proposed A-DPDOA-
based localization scheme with the Newton-Raphson-based
localization scheme, which is illustrated in Fig. 3. The online
Fig. 3. Online localization delay evaluation.
computation time of the existing Newton-Raphson scheme is
significantly reduced by one order of magnitude by applying
the A-DPDOA-based localization. In detail, when the volume
of the localization measurements are 100, the online compu-
tational time of the A-DPDOA-based is decreased from about
2.0 second (s) to 0.018 s, while this value can be reduced
from 9.30 s to 0.03 s when the volume of the measurements are
200. For the A-DPDOA and Newton-Raphson-based schemes,
the average computation times of one localization measure-
ment are 0.0015 s and 0.019 s, respectively. As these two
schemes need to process localization signal at the PD, and the
additional signal processing time is 0.0186 s. We would like
to mention that the computational time illustrated in Fig. 3
is only the online processing latency, and the results verify
that the proposed A-DPDOA-based localization scheme can
obviously save computational time compared with the Newton-
Raphson scheme. Therefore, the presented A-DPDOA-based
localization can perform real-time indoor localization for the
scenarios where low-latency services are required.
B. 2D/3D Localization Performance of A-DPDOA
Fig. 4(a)-(c) represents the 2D localization results applying
A-DPDOA at three height levels of 1.2 m, 1.5 m, and 1.8 m,
respectively. Here, the vertical height from the LED lamps
plane to the PD plane is denoted as h. We find that the
low localization estimation errors are achieved when mobile
devices are located near the center. However, once the devices
are far away from the center, it can be seen that the localization
estimation errors increase up to 10 cm, because the location
estimations suffer from shifting errors due to the time delay
measurements of the bias hardware and the calibration process
on the ITD at all LED lamps. The shifting error is common
in general VLC systems which results from the instability
of the measurement equipment. However, the shifting errors
can be solved by applying our previously presented shifting
mitigation algorithm [30], and thus these large localization
errors caused by shifting are effectively mitigated. The mean
2D location estimation errors at three heights of 1.2 m, 1.5 m,
and 1.8 m are 4.8 cm, 5.9 cm, and 6.7 cm, respectively.
We also evaluate the localization error performance in
3D scenario at three heights, i.e., 1.2 m (Fig. 4(d)), 1.5 m
(Fig. 4(e)), and 1.8 m (Fig. 4(f)), which are unknown to the
receiver. As the 3D localization environment is more complex
than that of 2D localization, the localization results shown in
Fig. 3are worse than those of Fig 4(a)-(c). The mean location
estimation errors at the heights of 1.2 m, 1.5 m, and 1.8 m are
Authorized licensed use limited to: Rajiv Gandhi Institute of Petroleum Technology. Downloaded on July 09,2026 at 05:40:38 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 7156 IEEE TRANSACTIONS ON COMMUNICATIONS, VOL. 71, NO. 12, DECEMBER 2023
Fig. 4. Comparisons of localization results and localization errors’ CDF.
10.8 cm, 9.5 cm, and 8.0 cm, respectively. Fig. 4(g) shows the
Cumulative Distribution Function (CDF) of the 2D localization
error distributions of Fig. 4(a)-(c).
From Fig. 4(g), we find that when the vertical height is
1.5 m, the location errors are less than 10 cm in 90%. The
CDF of 3D location errors of Figs. 4(d)-(f) is provided in
Fig. 4(h), where the localization errors are less than 20 cm
in 90% at the height of 1.5 m. These results verify that the
high localization accuracy of A-DPDOA in both 2D and 3D
localization environments.
C. Performance Evaluations Under PD Random Tilting
Here, we evaluate the localization robustness of the
proposed A-DPDOA-based localization and the existing
RSS-based localization [1], [23], [24], [25]. As shown in
Fig.5(a), the PD plane can maintain at a horizontal level when
the indoor ground is absolutely smooth. However, when some
areas of the indoor ground are uneven, the PD plane tilts to
a certain degree which decreases the receiver signal strengthtransmitted from some LED lamps, and finally degrades the
localization performance. As illustrated in Fig. 5(b), two tests
each of 8 measurements at one fixed location at the coordinate
(0.4 m, 2 m, 1.5 m) are conducted with PD plane tilting,
where the measurements of A-DPDOA distance difference and
received RSS amplitude are provided in this figure. Note that
the first 4 measurements are under the normal condition with
the PD plane being horizontal, while the next 4 measurements
are under PD plane tilting. The PD plane tilting randomly
ranges from 10 degree to 20 degree in these measurements.
We can easily observe that both A-DPDOA and RSS mea-
surements are affected by the random tilting of PD plane, and
RSS measurements are more sensitive to PD plane tilting than
that of A-DPDOA. For example, the received RSS amplitude
significantly changes from 40 millivolt (mV) of horizontal PD
plane to about 20 mV of PD plane tilting, while the distance
difference of A-DPDOA only changes from 2.6 m to 2.7 m
during this process.
Fig. 5(c) illustrates the localization results of the proposed
A-DPDOA-based localization and the existing RSS-based
Authorized licensed use limited to: Rajiv Gandhi Institute of Petroleum Technology. Downloaded on July 09,2026 at 05:40:38 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. YANG et al.: ADV ANCED INTEGRATED VISIBLE LIGHT COMMUNICATION AND LOCALIZATION SYSTEM 7157
Fig. 5. Measurements under random tilting of PD plane.
localization [1], [23], [24], [25] under PD plane tilting. The
blue dots and black dots show the normal measurements under
horizontal PD plane of A-DPDOA and RSS, respectively, the
dark red dots present the localization results of A-DPDOA
under PD plane tilting, and the blue dots show the localization
results of RSS under PD plane tilting. As depicted in Fig. 5(c),
the estimated locations (dark red dots) of A-DPDOA are very
close to the actual locations in the presence of PD plane tilting,
while the estimated locations (blue dots) of RSS deviate from
the actual locations in this case. The reason lies in the fact
that when the PD plane tilts, the current measurements of the
received signal power from all LED lamps deviate from the
actual measurements, where the RSS utilizes the measured
received power strength to perform localization which is rela-
tively sensitive to the PD plane tilting [25], [33], [36], and [37],
while A-DPDOA measures the phase difference between LED
lamps and the PD instead of received power strength which
is less sensitive to PD plane tilting. The experimental results
have verified that the proposed A-DPDOA-based localization
can obtain higher robustness than that of the RSS-based
localization against PD plane tilting.
D. 2D Tracking Comparisons of A-DPDOA and RSS
To demonstrate the real-time indoor tracking performance,
we experimentally replayed the 2D estimated trajectories of
the proposed A-DPDOA-based localization and the existing
RSS-based localization [1], [23], [24], [25] at the vertical
height of 1.5 m shown in Fig. 6(a). From Fig. 6(b), we can
easily observe that the estimated trajectory of the proposed
A-DPDOA-based localization is very close to the actual tra-
jectory of the mobile robot, while the estimated trajectory of
the existing RSS-based localization (Fig. 6(c)) significantly
deviates from off the actual trajectory in some areas. The
reason lies in the fact that the uneven indoor ground leads
to the mobile devices to shake and thus the PD plane tilts
sometimes. Once the PD plane tilts, the current measurements
of the received power from all LED lamps deviate from
the actual measurements. The RSS-based localization utilizes
the measured received power strength to perform localization
which is relatively sensitive to the PD plane tilting, whileA-DPDOA-based localization measures the phase difference
between LED lamps and the mobile devices instead of received
power intensity or power strength which is less sensitive to
movement shake. Thus, the tracking accuracy of A-DPDOA
is quite higher than that of RSS under the device movement,
especially at the edge or corner areas. For example, the mean
2D tracking errors of A-DPDOA and RSS are 4.3 cm and
18.2 cm, respectively.
The 2D tracking errors of A-DPDOA and RSS with respect
to each traveling time step at the height of 1.5 m are provided
in Fig. 6(d). From Fig. 6(d), we can observe that large tracking
errors of RSS are sometimes generated during traveling, and
the tracking performance frequently fluctuates with different
traveling steps. The reason lies in the fact that the measured
received power strengths from all LED lamps deviate from
the actual values when the PD plane tilts under movement.
However, A-DPDOA is less sensitive to the PD plane tilting as
it adopts the phase difference of arrival to perform localization
instead of received power strength. Fig. 5(e) compares the
cumulative tracking errors of A-DPDOA and RSS under
device movement. Obviously, at 90% of the CDF confidence,
the tracking errors of the two localization algorithms are
around 9.8 cm and 43.5 cm, respectively. The largest tracking
errors of A-DPDOA and RSS are around 15.4 cm and 51.0 cm,
respectively. The experimental results clearly demonstrate that
the tracking errors of RSS is too large to be considered under
device movement, while A-DPDOA is capable of robustly
tackling real-world tracking problems with high tracking
accuracy.
E. 3D Tracking Comparisons of A-DPDOA and RSS
Considering the fact that some devices may require 3D
tracking services, we further evaluated the 3D tracking per-
formance of A-DPDOA and RSS, shown in Fig. 7. In each
measurement, the vertical height between the PD plane and
LED lamps plane ranges from 1.2 m to 1.8 m, and the 3D
trajectory of the PD is in the 3D space (light blue space)
shown in Fig. 7(a). Different from 2D tracking scenario, the
3D trajectory is complex and may limit the tracking accuracy
improvement. As shown in Fig. 7(b), A-DPDOA can still
Authorized licensed use limited to: Rajiv Gandhi Institute of Petroleum Technology. Downloaded on July 09,2026 at 05:40:38 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 7158 IEEE TRANSACTIONS ON COMMUNICATIONS, VOL. 71, NO. 12, DECEMBER 2023
Fig. 6. 2D tracking measurements under random tilting of PD plane.
Fig. 7. 3D tracking measurements under random tilting of PD plane.
maintain good 3D tracking accuracy under robot movement
through suppressing the tracking error caused by uncertain PD
plane shake under the device mobility, while RSS (Fig. 7(c))
deviates from the actual trajectory sometimes due to the PD
plane shake. The average 3D tracking errors of A-DPDOA and
RSS are 0.093 m (9.3 cm) and 0.145 m (14.5 cm), respectively.The 3D tracking errors of A-DPDOA and RSS with
respect to each traveling time step are provided in Fig. 7(d).
As 3D tracking environment is complex, large 3D tracking
errors (up to 0.2 m tracking error) of RSS were frequently
generated in cases when the PD plane tilting happens. By con-
trast, this negative issue can be effectively addressed by
Authorized licensed use limited to: Rajiv Gandhi Institute of Petroleum Technology. Downloaded on July 09,2026 at 05:40:38 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. YANG et al.: ADV ANCED INTEGRATED VISIBLE LIGHT COMMUNICATION AND LOCALIZATION SYSTEM 7159
Fig. 8. Communication data rate in one unit area.
using A-DPDOA, which can support stable tracking accuracy
against random tilting of PD plane under the device move-
ment. The cumulative 3D tracking errors of two localization
algorithms were conducted in Fig. 7(e). For our proposed
A-DPDOA-based localization, its cumulative 3D tracking error
(Fig. 7(c)) is higher than that of 2D tracking error (Fig. 6(e))
due to a complex environment. However, the lower 3D track-
ing error can be achieved by A-DPDOA compared with
RSS even the mobile device executes a complex trajectory.
In Fig. 6(e), the tracking errors of A-DPDOA are less than
0.138 m (13.8 cm) in 90 percent of the cases while the
tracking errors of RSS are around 0.245 m (24.5 cm). For the
comparison of the tracking results shown in Fig. 6 and Fig. 7,
the underlying reason for the superiority of the proposed
A-DPDOA-based localization in tracking accuracy is the
ability to improve the tracking robustness against movement
shake.
F . Communication Performance of VLCL System
Finally, the indoor communication performance of the pro-
posed integrated VLCL system was investigated. Fig. 8shows
the data rate at 2×2m2area as a function of driven current
for LED lamps. Obviously, as the driven current increases, the
system data rate enhances due to the increased received power
at the PD. A maximum data rate of 112 Mbps is achieved
for a driven current of 130 mA with an available modulation
bandwidth of 20 MHz when the distance from devices to the
LED lamp is 1.5 m.
Fig. 9illustrates the total transmission data rate of all
devices and the QoS satisfaction level under different input
current levels for the three schemes. When the input current
increases, both the system data rate and the QoS satisfaction
performance are improved due to the increased received signal
power at devices. Our proposed joint optimization scheme
(joint power allocation, subcarrier allocation and adaptive
modulation) outperforms the joint power allocation and adap-
tive modulation scheme in [39], because the system optimizes
subcarrier allocation. By contract, the scheme in [40] achieves
the worse data rate performance, the reason is that it has
low bandwidth utilization as the bandwidth is divided into
several independent subbands for four LEDs and it needs
some number of subcarriers as guard bands to avoid OOBI.
From Fig. 9 (b), the results rerify that the proposed adaptive
transmission scheme efficiently satisfies the QoS requirements
of devices.
Fig. 9. (a) Sum transmission data rate and (b) the QoS satisfaction level
under different bias currents (mA).
G. Localization Performance Under Different Scenarios
Here, we provide simulations to evaluate the effect of the
reflected paths on the localization performance of our proposed
system over the 3×3m2coverage area, and we also compare
the localization performance between DPDOA and PDOA.
As shown in Fig.10 (a), for DPDOA with reflected paths,
the localization errors are mainly ranging from 3 to 8 cm,
and some localization errors are more than 10 cm when the
device is at corner or edge of the coverage area, and the
mean positioning error is as high as 5.73 cm. From Fig.10 (b),
we can observe that for the DPDOA without reflected paths,
most of the localization errors are less than 3 cm and only a
few of them are more than 10 cm when the device is at edge
or corner, and the mean positioning error is 3.47 cm. These
results indicate that the localization accuracy will decrease
due to the negative effect of the reflected paths. However, for
PDOA, the positioning errors are mainly ranging from 5 to
10 cm, and the localization error is higher than 20 cm when the
device locates near the room edge, and the mean positioning
error is as high as 8.04 cm. Compared with PDOA, DPDOA
does not need the help of LOs, and thus can avoid the negative
effect on LOs of both system set up and localization accuracy.
H. The Effect of Power Allocation Values on Performance
Here, we provide related results to demonstrate the trade-
off between communication and positioning. Here, let Ptot
denotes the total transmission power and αdenote the power
allocation trade-off value between communication and posi-
tioning, where the allocated power for communication is
Authorized licensed use limited to: Rajiv Gandhi Institute of Petroleum Technology. Downloaded on July 09,2026 at 05:40:38 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 7160 IEEE TRANSACTIONS ON COMMUNICATIONS, VOL. 71, NO. 12, DECEMBER 2023
Fig. 10. Localization error distribution analysis under different scenarios.
Fig. 11. The impact of the power allocation trade-off value on communication
and localization performances.
Pcom=αPtotand the allocated power for positioning is
Ppos= (1−α)Ptot. In this context, Ptot=Pcom+Ppos.
Fig. 11 illustrates the effect of the power allocation trade-off
value on the integrated VLCL system with the communication
and positioning performances when the total bias current is
140 mA and the localization error threshold is 8 cm. Note
that the transmit power is determined by the bias current at
transmitters. When the trade-off value αis 0.4, the probability
for localization errors within 8 cm is 82.4% and the achievable
data rate is 22.3 Mbps. From Fig. 11, we also can observe
that as the increase of α, the more power will be allocated
for communication and thus the data rate enhances during
this process. However, as the power allocated for positioningdecreases, the positioning error increases (positioning accuracy
reduces) accordingly. It is worth noting that when the trade-off
value αchanges from 0.6 to 0.7, the probability for localiza-
tion errors within 8 cm significantly decreases from 57.2% to
36.3%. This phenomenon indicates that the positioning error is
super big when the power allocated for positioning is less than
0.4∗Ptot. In addition, we also find that the communication
data rate decreases when αchanges from 0.4 to 0.3.
V. C ONCLUSION
This paper has proposed a realistic integrated VLCL system
that can be used to support indoor real-time tracking and com-
munication services. We implemented and experimented both
tracking and communication operations on mobile devices
in a real indoor environment. As RSS-based localization is
much sensitive to random tilting of PD plane and back-
ground noise, an A-DPDOA-based localization algorithm is
presented to provide high-accuracy localization. The experi-
mental results illustrated that the presented system and robust
schemes improve localization accuracy compared with existing
solutions. Our future work will focus on the application the
integrated VLCL system in 6G communications and industrial
indoor environments [41].
REFERENCES
[1] H. Yang, A. Alphones, W.-D. Zhong, C. Chen, P. Du, and S. Zhang,
“QoS-driven optimized design in a new integrated visible light com-
munication and positioning system,” in Proc. IEEE Int. Conf. Commun.
(ICC), Jun. 2020, pp. 1–6.
Authorized licensed use limited to: Rajiv Gandhi Institute of Petroleum Technology. Downloaded on July 09,2026 at 05:40:38 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. YANG et al.: ADV ANCED INTEGRATED VISIBLE LIGHT COMMUNICATION AND LOCALIZATION SYSTEM 7161
[2] C. Laoudias, A. Moreira, S. Kim, S. Lee, L. Wirola, and C. Fischione,
“A survey of enabling technologies for network localization, track-
ing, and navigation,” IEEE Commun. Surveys Tuts., vol. 20, no. 4,
pp. 3607–3644, 4th Quart., 2018.
[3] H. Yang, W.-D. Zhong, C. Chen, and A. Alphones, “Integration of visible
light communication and positioning within 5G networks for Internet of
Things,” IEEE Netw., vol. 34, no. 5, pp. 134–140, Sep. 2020.
[4] M. F. Keskin, A. D. Sezer, and S. Gezici, “Localization via visible light
systems,” Proc. IEEE, vol. 106, no. 6, pp. 1063–1088, Jun. 2018.
[5] A. Jovicic, J. Li, and T. Richardson, “Visible light communication:
Opportunities, challenges and the path to market,” IEEE Commun. Mag.,
vol. 51, no. 12, pp. 26–32, Dec. 2013.
[6] H. Haas, L. Yin, Y . Wang, and C. Chen, “What is LiFi?” J. Lightw.
Technol., vol. 34, no. 6, pp. 1533–1544, Mar. 15, 2016.
[7] Z. Wang, Z. Yang, Q. Huang, L. Yang, and Q. Zhang, “ALS-P: Light
weight visible light positioning via ambient light sensor,” in Proc. IEEE
Conf. Comput. Commun. (INFOCOM), Apr. 2019, pp. 1306–1314.
[8] S. R. Teli, P. Chvojka, S. Vítek, S. Zvanovec, R. Perez-Jimenez, and
Z. Ghassemlooy, “A SIMO hybrid visible-light communication system
for optical IoT,” IEEE Internet Things J., vol. 9, no. 5, pp. 3548–3558,
Mar. 2022.
[9] T. Komine and M. Nakagawa, “Fundamental analysis for visible-light
communication system using LED lights,” IEEE Trans. Consum. Elec-
tron., vol. 50, no. 1, pp. 100–107, Feb. 2004.
[10] Y . Yang, J. Luo, C. Chen, Z. Chen, W.-D. Zhong, and L. Chen, “Pushing
the data rate of practical VLC via combinatorial light emission,” IEEE
Trans. Mobile Comput., vol. 20, no. 5, pp. 1979–1992, May 2021.
[11] H. Chen, A. T. L. Lee, S.-C. Tan, and S. Y . Hui, “Electrical and
thermal effects of light-emitting diodes on signal-to-noise ratio in visible
light communication,” IEEE Trans. Ind. Electron. , vol. 66, no. 4,
pp. 2785–2794, Apr. 2019.
[12] K. N. Datta et al., “Exploring visible light communication system using
RTS/CTS mechanism for mobile environment, in Proc. 24th Annu. Int.
Conf. Mobile Comput. Netw., 2019, pp. 732–734.
[13] C. Chen, S. Fu, X. Jian, M. Liu, X. Deng, and Z. Ding, “NOMA for
energy-efficient LiFi-enabled bidirectional IoT communication,” IEEE
Trans. Commun., vol. 69, no. 3, pp. 1693–1706, Mar. 2021.
[14] S. Zhao, J. Xu, and O. Trescases, “Burst-mode resonant LLC converter
for an LED luminaire with integrated visible light communication
for smart buildings,” IEEE Trans. Power Electron., vol. 29, no. 8,
pp. 4392–4402, Aug. 2014.
[15] S. Niu, P. Wang, S. Chi, Z. Liu, W. Pang, and L. Guo, “Enhanced optical
OFDM/OQAM for visible light communication systems,” IEEE Wireless
Commun. Lett., vol. 10, no. 3, pp. 614–618, Mar. 2021.
[16] R. Bai, Z. Wang, R. Jiang, and J. Cheng, “Interleaved DFT-
spread layered/enhanced ACO-OFDM for intensity-modulated direct-
detection systems,” J. Lightw. Technol., vol. 36, no. 20, pp. 4713–4722,
Oct. 15, 2018.
[17] S. D. Dissanayake and J. Armstrong, “Comparison of ACO-OFDM,
DCO-OFDM and ADO-OFDM in IM/DD systems,” J. Lightw. Technol.,
vol. 31, no. 7, pp. 1063–1072, Apr. 1, 2013.
[18] X. Huang, F. Yang, C. Pan, and J. Song, “Pre-distorted enhanced ADO-
OFDM for hybrid VLC networks: A mutual-interference-free approach,”
IEEE Photon. J., vol. 12, no. 2, pp. 1–12, Apr. 2020.
[19] J. He, J. He, and J. Shi, “An enhanced adaptive scheme with pairwise
coding for OFDM-VLC system,” IEEE Photon. Technol. Lett., vol. 30,
no. 13, pp. 1254–1257, Jul. 1, 2018.
[20] Y . Hong et al., “Experimental investigation of multi-band OCT precod-
ing for OFDM-based visible light communications,” Opt. Exp., vol. 25,
no. 11, pp. 12908–12914, May 2017.
[21] K. Qiu, F. Zhang, and M. Liu, “Let the light guide us: VLC-based
localization,” IEEE Robot. Autom. Mag., vol. 23, no. 4, pp. 174–183,
Dec. 2016.
[22] H.-S. Kim, D.-H. Kwon, S.-H. Yang, Y .-H. Son, and S.-K. Han,
“Channel assignment technique for RF frequency reuse in CA-VLC-
based accurate optical indoor localization,” J. Lightw. Technol., vol. 32,
no. 14, pp. 2544–2555, Jul. 15, 2014.
[23] S. Shao, A. Khreishah, and I. Khalil, “Enabling real-time indoor tracking
of IoT devices through visible light retroreflection,” IEEE Trans. Mobile
Comput., vol. 19, no. 4, pp. 836–851, Apr. 2020.
[24] A. H. A. Bakar, T. Glass, H. Y . Tee, F. Alam, and M. Legg, “Accurate
visible light positioning using multiple-photodiode receiver and machine
learning,” IEEE Trans. Instrum. Meas., vol. 70, pp. 1–12, 2021.[25] C. Amini, P. Azmi, and S. S. Kashef, “An accurate ranging algorithm
based on received signal strength in visible light communication,”
J. Lightw. Technol., vol. 39, no. 14, pp. 4654–4660, Jul. 15, 2021.
[26] H. Steendam, “A 3-D positioning algorithm for AOA-based VLP with
an aperture-based receiver,” IEEE J. Sel. Areas Commun., vol. 36, no. 1,
pp. 23–33, Jan. 2018.
[27] C.-Y . Hong et al., “Angle-of-arrival (AOA) visible light positioning
(VLP) system using solar cells with third-order regression and ridge
regression algorithms,” IEEE Photon. J., vol. 12, no. 3, pp. 1–5,
Jun. 2020.
[28] L. Li, P. Xie, and J. Wang, “Enabling 3D ambient light positioning with
mobile phones and battery-free chips,” IEEE Trans. Mobile Comput.,
vol. 20, no. 3, pp. 952–964, Mar. 2021.
[29] S. M. Sheikh, H. M. Asif, K. Raahemifar, and F. Al-Turjman, “Time
difference of arrival based indoor positioning system using visible light
communication,” IEEE Access, vol. 9, pp. 52113–52124, 2021.
[30] S. Zhang, W.-D. Zhong, P. Du, and C. Chen, “Experimental demonstra-
tion of indoor sub-decimeter accuracy VLP system using differential
PDOA,” IEEE Photon. Technol. Lett., vol. 30, no. 19, pp. 1703–1706,
Oct. 1, 2018.
[31] S. Zhang, P. Du, C. Chen, W.-D. Zhong, and A. Alphones, “Robust 3D
indoor VLP system based on ANN using hybrid RSS/PDOA,” IEEE
Access, vol. 7, pp. 47769–47780, 2019.
[32] 5GPPP Association. (Oct. 2015). 5G and the Factories of the
Future, White Paper. [Online]. Available: https://5g-ppp.eu/wp-
content/uploads/2014/02/5G-PPP-White-Paper-on-Factories-of-the-
Future-Vertical-Sector.pdf
[33] B. Lin, X. Tang, Z. Ghassemlooy, C. Lin, and Y . Li, “Experimental
demonstration of an indoor VLC positioning system based on OFDMA,”
IEEE Photon. J., vol. 9, no. 2, pp. 1–9, Apr. 2017.
[34] H. Yang, C. Chen, W.-D. Zhong, A. Alphones, S. Zhang, and P. Du,
“Demonstration of a quasi-gapless integrated visible light communi-
cation and positioning system,” IEEE Photon. Technol. Lett., vol. 30,
no. 23, pp. 2001–2004, Dec. 1, 2018.
[35] H. Yang et al., “Coordinated resource allocation-based integrated visible
light communication and positioning systems for indoor IoT,” IEEE
Trans. Wireless Commun., vol. 19, no. 7, pp. 4671–4684, Jul. 2020.
[36] H. Yang, W.-D. Zhong, C. Chen, A. Alphones, and P. Du, “QoS-
driven optimized design-based integrated visible light communication
and positioning for indoor IoT networks,” IEEE Internet Things J., vol. 7,
no. 1, pp. 269–283, Jan. 2020.
[37] D. Kim, J. K. Park, and J. T. Kim, “Three-dimensional VLC positioning
system model and method considering receiver tilt,” IEEE Access, vol. 7,
pp. 132205–132216, 2019.
[38] T. Yuan, Y . Xu, Y . Wang, P. Han, and J. Chen, “A tilt receiver correction
method for visible light positioning using machine learning method,”
IEEE Photon. J., vol. 10, no. 6, pp. 1–12, Dec. 2018.
[39] Y . Wang, L. Tao, Y . Wang, and N. Chi, “High speed WDM VLC
system based on multi-band CAP64 with weighted pre-equalization and
modified CMMA based post-equalization,” IEEE Commun. Lett., vol. 18,
no. 10, pp. 1719–1722, Oct. 2014.
[40] Y . Xu et al., “Accuracy analysis and improvement of visible light
positioning based on VLC system using orthogonal frequency division
multiple access,” Opt. Exp., vol. 26, no. 7, pp. 9230–9242, Apr. 2018.
[41] H. L. Yang, “Visible light communication systems supporting wireless
data access and indoor positioning applications,” Ph.D. thesis, School
Elect. Electron. Eng., Nanyang Technol. Univ., Singapore, Mar. 2020.
Helin Yang (Senior Member, IEEE) received
the B.S. and M.S. degrees from the School of
Telecommunications and Information Engineering,
Chongqing University of Posts and Telecommuni-
cations, in 2013 and 2016, respectively, and the
Ph.D. degree from the School of Electrical and Elec-
tronic Engineering, Nanyang Technological Univer-
sity, Singapore, in 2020. He is currently an Associate
Professor with the School of Informatics, Xia-
men University, Xiamen, China. His research inter-
ests include wireless communication and resource
management.
Authorized licensed use limited to: Rajiv Gandhi Institute of Petroleum Technology. Downloaded on July 09,2026 at 05:40:38 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 7162 IEEE TRANSACTIONS ON COMMUNICATIONS, VOL. 71, NO. 12, DECEMBER 2023
Sheng Zhang received the B.E. degree from
the School of Optical and Electric Information,
Huazhong University of Science and Technology,
in 2015, and the Ph.D. degree from the School
of Electrical and Electronic Engineering, Nanyang
Technological University, Singapore, in 2020. He is
currently an Scientist with the Institute for Info-
comm Research (I2R), A*STAR, Singapore. His
current research interests include air traffic systems,
positioning systems, machine learning, and signal
processing.
Arokiaswami Alphones (Senior Member, IEEE)
received the B.Tech. degree from the Madras Insti-
tute of Technology, Chennai, India, in 1982, the
M.Tech. degree from the Indian Institute of Technol-
ogy Kharagpur, Kharagpur, India, in 1984, and the
Ph.D. degree in optically controlled millimeter wave
circuits from the Kyoto Institute of Technology,
Kyoto, Japan, in 1992. Since 2001, he has been with
the School of Electrical and Electronic Engineering,
Nanyang Technological University, Singapore. His
current research interests include electromagnetic
analysis on planar RF circuits and integrated optics, microwave photonics,
and wireless power transfer technologies.
Chen Chen (Member, IEEE) received the B.S.
and M.Eng. degrees from the University of Elec-
tronic Science and Technology of China, Chengdu,
China, in 2010 and 2013, respectively, and the
Ph.D. degree from Nanyang Technological Univer-
sity, Singapore, in 2017. He was a Post-Doctoral
Researcher with the School of Electrical and Elec-
tronic Engineering, Nanyang Technological Univer-
sity, from 2017 to 2019. He is currently a Research
Professor with the School of Microelectronics and
Communication Engineering, Chongqing University,
Chongqing, China. His research interests include optical wireless communi-
cation, optical access networks, the Internet of Things, and machine learning.
Kwok-Yan Lam (Senior Member, IEEE) received
the B.Sc. degree (Hons.) from the University of
London in 1987 and the Ph.D. degree from the Uni-
versity of Cambridge in 1990. He was a Visiting Sci-
entist with the Isaac Newton Institute, University of
Cambridge; and a Visiting Professor with the Euro-
pean Institute for Systems Security. He has collab-
orated extensively with law-enforcement agencies,
government regulators, telecommunication opera-
tors, and financial institutions in various aspects of
infocomm and cyber security in the region. He was
a Professor with Tsinghua University, China, from 2002 to 2010. He has been
a Faculty Member of the National University of Singapore and the University
of London, since 1990. He is currently a renowned cyber security researcher
and a practitioner. He is also a Full Professor with Nanyang Technological
University. In 1998, he received the Singapore Foundation Award from the
Japanese Chamber of Commerce and Industry, in recognition of his research
and development achievement in information security in Singapore.
Zehui Xiong (Senior Member, IEEE) received
the Ph.D. degree from Nanyang Technological
University (NTU), Singapore. He is currently an
Assistant Professor with the Singapore Univer-
sity of Technology and Design, and also an
Honorary Adjunct Senior Research Scientist with
Alibaba–NTU Singapore Joint Research Institute,
Singapore. He was the Visiting Scholar with Prince-
ton University and the University of Waterloo.
He has published more than 200 research papers in
leading journals and flagship conferences and many
of them are ESI highly cited papers. His research interests include wireless
communications, the Internet of Things, blockchain, edge intelligence, and
metaverse. He has won over ten best paper awards in international confer-
ences and is listed in the World’s Top 2% Scientists identified by Stanford
University. He was a recipient of the IEEE Early Career Researcher Award
for Excellence in Scalable Computing, the IEEE Technical Committee on
Blockchain and Distributed Ledger Technologies Early Career Award, the
IEEE Internet Technical Committee Early Achievement Award, the IEEE
TCSVC Rising Star Award, the IEEE T RANSACTIONS ON COMPUTATIONAL
IMAGING Rising Star Award, the IEEE TCCLD Rising Star Award, the IEEE
Best Land Transportation Paper Award, the IEEE CSIM Technical Committee
Best Journal Paper Award, the IEEE SPCC Technical Committee Best Paper
Award, the IEEE VTS Singapore Best Paper Award, the Chinese Government
Award for Outstanding Students Abroad, and the NTU SCSE Best PhD
Thesis Runner-Up Award. He is serving as the Associate Director for the
Future Communications Research and Development Program. In 2023, he was
featured on the list of Forbes Asia 30 under 30. He is serving as an Editor
or the Guest Editor for many leading journals, including IEEE J OURNAL
ONSELECTED AREAS IN COMMUNICATIONS , IEEE T RANSACTIONS ON
VEHICULAR TECHNOLOGY , IEEE I NTERNET OF THINGS JOURNAL , IEEE
TRANSACTIONS ON COGNITIVE COMMUNICATIONS AND NETWORKING ,
and IEEE T RANSACTIONS ON NETWORK SCIENCE AND ENGINEERING .
Liang Xiao (Senior Member, IEEE) received the
B.S. degree in communication engineering from the
Nanjing University of Posts and Telecommunica-
tions, China, in 2000, the M.S. degree in electri-
cal engineering from Tsinghua University, China,
in 2003, and the Ph.D. degree in electrical engi-
neering from Rutgers University, NJ, USA, in 2009.
She was a Visiting Professor with Princeton Univer-
sity, Virginia Tech, and the University of Maryland,
College Park. She is currently a Professor with
the Department of Information and Communication
Engineering, Xiamen University, Xiamen, China. She was a recipient of the
Best Paper Award for 2016 INFOCOM Big Security WS and the 2017 ICC.
She has served as an Associate Editor for IEEE T RANSACTIONS ON
INFORMATION FORENSICS AND SECURITY and the Guest Editor for IEEE
JOURNAL OF SELECTED TOPICS IN SIGNAL PROCESSING .
Yi Zhang (Member, IEEE) received the B.S.
degree in software engineering from Xiamen Uni-
versity in 2014 and the M.S. and Ph.D. degrees
in communication engineering from the National
Taiwan University, in 2016 and 2020, respectively.
He was with the Quanzhou Institute of Equip-
ment Manufacturing, Chinese Academy of Sciences,
from 2016 to 2017. He is currently an Assistant
Professor with the Department of Information and
Communication Engineering, Xiamen University.
His research interests include mobile and wire-
less networking, fog/edge computing, and game theoretical models for
communications networks.
Authorized licensed use limited to: Rajiv Gandhi Institute of Petroleum Technology. Downloaded on July 09,2026 at 05:40:38 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 